[BUTTERMILK BISCUITS]

2 cups flour
1/4  tsp baking soda
4 tsp baking powder
3/4  tsp salt
4 tbsp butter, cold
1 cup homemade buttermilk*

*Homemade Buttermilk:
1 tbsp apple cider vinegar
1 cup milk
(combine and let sit for a few min)

Combine flour, soda, baking powder, and salt. Cut cold butter into small cubes and use fingertips to combine into flour mixture, continuing to break into small pieces until small crumbles are formed. Form a well in the center of the flour mixture and pour buttermilk in the center. Using a spatula, combine all together. Add a tbsp more milk at a time if mixture is too dry. You want it to be somewhat sticky but not wet. Take batter out of bowl and knead a few times on a floured surface. Pat batter down to a rectangle shape 2 thickness. Using a knife, divide dough into about 8 squares/rectangles. Take each section and push sides in to form a circular shape. Place the biscuits onto a greased pan about 1 apart. Spray tops of biscuits with cooking spray. Bake in oven at 425 for about 15 min or until lightly golden. 



[Marks Famous Cinnamon Rolls]
3 c flour
1/2 t salt
1/2 c sugar
1 c water
1 pkg dry yeast
1/2 crisco
1 egg
2t butter
1/2 t vanilla

Dissolve yeast in lukewarm water. Sift all dry ingredients together-cut in crisco- mix well-add egg, vanilla and yeast mixture. Place dough in greased bowl-cover-let rise to double in size. (overnight in refrigerator) prepare rolls, biscuits-etc. let rise. Bake at 375 for 30 min. (before) bread goes in oven brush with melted butter. 

Roll dough into rectangle 12x20 
Spread softened 1 1/2 sticks butter and 1 1/2 granulated sugar and 2 t.
Sprinkle with chopped walnuts or pecans-white raisins. 
Roll into jelly roll-cut into 1/2" rolls. Place on baking sheet. Let rise in warm place. Bake. While still warm cover with powdered sugar. Glaze
"" butter, milk, vanilla



[Breakfast Casserole]

12 Eggs
2 4oz cans green chilis
16oz cottage cheese
8oz Monterey Jack Cheese
16oz breakfast sausage

Brown sausage.  Whisk eggs.  Combine all ingredients in a large casserole dish.  Bake a 375* for about 45 min or until the edge is browning and eggs are solid.



[Easy Butter Crust]
Heathers Pref for quiche

1cup Flour
 tsp salt
6 tbsp cold butter
4 tbsp ice cold water

Mix together flour and salt.  Cut butter with pastry cutter until mixture is in pebble sized crumbs.  Add water and blend until pulls all together.  Roll into a ball and place on a floured surface.  Using a rolling pin roll into pie sized circle.  Bake according to the directions of pie or quiche.  


Quiche Supreme


CRUST
2 C flour
1 tsp salt
1  stick butter
1 egg yolk
3 Tbsp water

Mix flour, salt
Cut in butter. Beat egg yolk and water, add to flour mixture
Refrigerate crust mixture for 30 min
Form crust in a spring form pan and place on sturdy cookie sheet

FILLING
1 quart whipping cream
10 eggs
Optional Additions: artichokes, green chilies, taco meat, chorizo, grilled chicken,
Sautéed onions, cheese, etc..


Bake @ 375
Filling should be 1 inch from top.  Cover loosely with foil 1  hrs.
Remove foil for 15 min.  
Remove from oven and cool for 30 min




Steak and Onion Quiche
Left over steak cut into small pieces
 1/ 4 Purple onion
2 tbsp butter
4oz mushrooms
Webbers Smokey Mesquite seasoning
6 eggs
1 cup whipping cream
1 cup Gouda cheese
Pie Crust
Chop onion and mushrooms.  Sauté in butter and a few dashes Webbers seasoning.  Put onion, mushrooms, and steak into the pie crust.  Whisk eggs and cream.  Cover steak.  Spread cheese  over eggs. Bake at 375* for 40 min or until eggs are solid in the middle.  If the top starts to get too brown cover with foil.  


Ham and cheddar quiche

1/2  yellow onion
2 tablespoons butter
 tsp garlic powder
1 cup black forest ham
1 small head broccoli 
6 eggs
1 cup cream
1 cup shredded cheddar cheese
Pie crust
Chop onion and ham into small pieces.  Chop broccoli into rice size pieces.  In a skillet melt butter and sauté onions with garlic powder.  Whisk eggs and cream together.  Add onions, ham and broccoli to pie crust.  Pour eggs over meat and veggies.  Sprinkle cheese over eggs.  Bake at 375* for 40 min or until eggs are solid in the middle.  If the top starts to get too brown cover with foil.  



Banana bread
BANANA BREAD

1.5 cup sugar
1/3 cup butter
2 eggs
1.5 cup flour
 cup buttermilk
1 tsp soda
1 tsp vanilla
1 tsp salt
3 bananas
1 cup pecans

Cream butter and add sugar gradually. Add eggs and mix well. Sift flour, salt, soda and add alternating with buttermilk. Mash bananas and add. Stir in vanilla and nuts. Bake at 350 for approximately 45-55 minutes in a bunt pan. Insert knife to make sure it comes out clean. 


Pumpkin bread
PUMPKIN BREAD

2 cups flour
2 cups sugar
1.5 cups butter
5 eggs
1 tsp cinnamon
1 heaping tsp baking soda
2 cups pumpkin
1 cup pecans
1 tsp salt
1 tsp nutmeg
1 small pkg instant coconut pudding

Mix all ingredients together. Bake in bunt pan or two loaf pans at 350 for 50-60 min. 


Crunchy Granola
4 cup rolled oats
1 cup sunflower seeds
1 cup pumpkin seeds
1 cup wheat germ
 cup sesame seeds
1-2 cup almonds 
1 cup raw honey
 cup canola oil
1 Tbsp cinnamon
Mix together oats, seeds, wheat germ and almonds. Bring honey canola oil and cinnamon to a boil (watch carefully). Pour over the dry mixture and bake 325 for 1 hour or until golden brown. Stir every 12-15 minutes. 

Optional add ins: Dried and baked apples, Turkish apricots, currants, dried cherries, dates, seeds, raisins, etc. 


French  Toast
French Toast

1 Large loaf of French bread
12oz evaporated milk
1 cup sugar
6 eggs
 tsp vanilla
2-4 tbls cinnamon
Crystal Cane Sugar
Stick Butter
Slice French bread into slices.  In a large bowl whisk together milk, sugar, eggs, vanilla, and 2-3 tbls, and cinnamon.  Submerge bread into the egg mixture. Set griddle or skillet to 250* When hot, place bread on the griddle.  Toast on each side for 5 min.  While toasted side is hot butter and sprinkle crystal sugar on top.    Turn griddle down to 200*.  Toast butter/sugar sides for another 5 mins each, or to desired doneness.  


Broccoli Chicken Salad
5 chicken breasts, boned and chopped
1 bunch green onions, chopped
1 green bell pepper
1 red bell pepper
2 bags broccoli slaw
3 tbsp butter
1 pack Oriental Ramen noodles
3/4 cup almonds
1/2 cup sesame seeds
Combine chopped chicken, red pepper, green pepper, green onion and broccoli into a large bowl.  Refrigerate.  In a skillet melt butter, add crushed ramen noodles, almonds, and sesame seeds. sauté until golden brown.  Remove from burner and add Ramen seasoning packet.  Add too bowl in fridge.


Chopped Apple Caeaser

Romain Lettuce
Tart red apple 
Real bacon pieces
Garlic and Butter Texas Toast Croutons
Girards Ceasar Salad Dressing

Chop romain lettuce into small shreds.  Dice apple into small pieces.  Crush croutons into crumbs.  Add all ingredients into salad bowl.  Toss and serve.


Coleslaw

1/4  cup mix
1lb coleslaw
3/4 cup mayo
1 can roasted almonds finely crushed
1 package Ramen noodles
3-4 green onions chopped
  
Crumble the noodles in the Ramen package.  Discard the seasoning packet.  Mix all ingredients together in a large bowl.  Let chill at least 30 min before serving.  

Coleslaw Mix

5lbs sugar
1/2 pepper
1/2 cup salt
1tbsp garlic powder


Copycat Cheevers Brussel Sprout Salad


Brussel sprouts
Kale 
Spinach
Pickled red onion
Grapefruit
Pistachios
Feta
Olive oil
Balsamic Vinegar 


Chop fruit, veggies, and pistachios.  Drizzle with olive oil and vinegar and mix.



Egg Drop Soup

1 cup chopped brussell sprouts
1 cup chopped kale
1 cup chopped spinach
 cup green onion
Webbers chicken seasoning 
Chopped garlic
Ghee
32oz chicken bone broth
1 egg
2 egg whites

In a skillet sauté sprouts, kale, spinach, onion and garlic with a sprinkle of seasoning and tablespoon ghee.  Pour bone broth into a medium sauce pan.  Add saute into the broth.  Boil for five min.  Whisk together egg and egg whites.  Reduce heat.  Continuously stir, slowly pour eggs into the soup.    Feel free to add some shredded chicken if you need a little more protein. 



Taco soup
2 lb ground beef
1 onion chopped fine
4 oz green chilis chopped
1 package taco seasoning
1.5 c water
1 pkg hidden valley ranch mix
2 cans ranch beans
2 cans diced tomatoes
1 can rotel mild

Brown meat, onions, and green chilis. Add remaining ingredients. Simmer. 


Tortilla Soup
1 cup onion
4 cloves garlic
1 tsp olive oil
1 or 2 tsp zucchini (sliced)
3-4 carrots (sliced)
1 can chopped green chilies
1 pkg taco seasoning mix
1 can tomatoes (Mexican style) undrained
6 cups chicken broth
1 pkg frozen corn
2 cups cooked chicken (or turkey) cut into cubes
1/3 cup fresh cilantro
Tortilla chips and grated Monterey jack cheese

In 5-quart sauce pan over medium heat, saute onion in oil for 3-4 minutes. Sir in chilies and taco seasoning mix; cook 1 minute. Add tomatoes. Stir in broth; bring to a boil. Add corn, vegetables, and chicken. Reduce heat to low and simmer 5 minutes. Add cilantro. To serve, spoon into bowl. Top each serving with tortilla pieces and 1 tbsp cheese. 


Taco Salad

Azteca Salad Shells
1lb ground beef or turkey
1 can black beans
 Taco seasoning
Romaine
Cherry tomatoes
Sliced olives
Green onion
Greek yogurt
Catalina dressing

Brown meat.  Rinse and drain.  Add back into skillet.  Add can of beans and taco seasoning.  Cook shells according to box.  When cooled build salad to taste.  


Pink Salad
1-8 oz pkg cream cheese
1 can eagle brand condensed milk
1 lg can pineapple tidbits drained
1 can cherry pie filling
1 lg cluster red grapes cut in 1/4
1 cup chopped pecans
Large cool whip 18- 20 oz or so

Blend all ingredients together. Refrigerate until mixture sets. 



Jalapeno Popper Dip

2 Blocks Cream Cheese (preferably Greek Cream Cheese)
1 cup chipotle mayo
4-5 Medium Jalapenos seeded and finely chopped
2 packages 2.8 oz Real Bacon Pieces
8 oz package fiesta blend shredded cheese

Blend cream cheese, chipotle mayo, jalapenos, bacon, and  3/4 of the shredded cheese in a mixing bowl.  Spread mixture into an 8x8 casserole dish.  Cover with the remaining cheese.  Bake at 350* until bubbly (about 15 min)   Serve with Wheat Thins.




HOT JALEPENO CRAB DIP

1 can crabmeat
1 can lump crabmeat
1 8 oz cream cheese
1 tsp minced garlic
1 tsp Worcestershire sauce
1 tsp hot sauce
1/2 cup chopped pickled jalepenos
1/4 pound shredded Monterey jack or Colby jack cheese
1/2 tsp salt
1/2 cup mayonnaise
2 oz parmesan cheese

Combine all ingredients. Toss to mix. Spoon into baking dish coated with cooking spray. Sprinkle with parmigian cheese. 

Bake 350 for 25 min. Remove from heat. Let set for 5 min. Serve with chips. 



PINEAPPLE CHEESE BALL

2 pkgs 8 oz cream cheese
1 can 8.5 oz crushed pineapple
2 cups chopped pecans
 1/4 cup finely chopped onions
1 tbsp seasoning salt
1/4 finely chopped green pepper
Mix cream cheese until soft. Add pineapple, 1 cup pecans, onions, pepper and seasoning salt. Mix well. Spread on platter and top with remaining cup nuts. Serve with crackers. 



EGG ROLLS
1 lb ground beef
1 can chopped up bamboo shoots
1 carrot, grated
1 onion
1/2 head cabbage, shredded (2-3 cups)
Egg roll wrapper
Soy sauce
Brown meat, drain and sprinkle dry mustard, ginger, salt and lemon pepper. Add veggies. Sprinkle soy sauce. Put on lid. Cook on low, stirring occasionally with salt. Spray cookie sheet. Fill egg roll wrappers with 2-3 tbsp mixture and roll wrap so completely closed. Brush with egg white. Bake at 350 for 30 minutes or until light crispy brown. 



Sweet and sour sauce:
1/4 cup vinegar
1 cup brown sugar
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup pineapple juice
1 tbsp soy sauce
1 tsp worcestershire sauce
1 tsp corn starch
2 tbsp water
In a sauce pan over medium heat bring brown sugar and water to a boil. Cook until reduced in half. Add pineapple juice, vinegar, soy sauce and worcesteshire sauce. Bring to a boil. Reduce heat and simmer 15 minutes. In a small bowl, mix corn starch and water and add to sauce over high heat. Bring to a boil. Cook and stir until mixture thickens. 



Grandma Fran's BBQ Brisket

Beef brisket
1 can beef broth
5 oz soy sauce
1 TBL lemon juice
1 tsp garlic powder
1 cup ketchup
4 tsp vinegar
4 tsp worcestershire
4 tsp heaping brown sugar

Trim excess fat off of brisket
Mix beef broth, soy sauce, lemon juice, and garlic powder.  Place in baking dish
Marinate overnight turning meat several times.  Bake 250 for 6-7 hours covered with foil.
Let cool for 15 min.  Slice thin.  Mix ketchup, vinegar, Worcestershire, brown sugar.  Pour over meat and cook uncovered 30 min @250



2-4lb Tied Tenderloin Roast
2tsp dried oregano
2tsp dried thyme
2 tsp dried rosemary
1tsp dry mustard
2tsp garlic powder
1tsp salt
1tsp pepper
Olive Oil
Download the Roast Perfect app.  Combine all seasonings in a bowl.  Drizzle olive oil evenly over the roast.  Cover the roast with all of the seasonings in the bowl.  Let set for 1-12 hours before cooking.  Use the Roast Perfect app to know the time and temp to roast the meat.  Serve with horseradish sauce.


Tandoori rack of lamb

1 8-bone rack of lamb
2 tsp brown sugar
2 tsp sea salt
1 tsp curry powder
1 tsp cumin
1 tsp coriander
1/2 tsp dry mustard
1/2 tsp powdered ginger
1/2 tsp black pepper

Gather the ingredients. Combine turmeric, curry powder, cumin, coriander, brown sugar, mustard and ginger. Dry rack of lamb with spice mixture. Set aside for 1 hour. Preheat grill. Place lamb on hot grill and sear on each side for about 2 minutes. Reduce heat or move to a cooler part of the grill and continue grilling until the internal temperature reaches about 145 F. Once cooked, remove from grill and tent with aluminum foil. Allow rack of lamb to rest for about 10 minutes then cut into chops and serve. 



Tuna Cakes
12 oz drained albacore, white tuna 
2 slices sprouted-grain bread (ezekiel brand), ground to crumbs in a food         
     processor. (Or you can also use 1/3 cup almond flour)
2 large eggs
1/2 cup fresh cilantro, coarsely chopped, plus sprigs for garnish
2 tbsp mayonnaise
1 tbsp fresh lemon juice
1/4 tsp sea salt
1/4 tsp black pepper
1/4 tsp black pepper
2 tbsp olive oil
Salsa, to serve
In a large bowl, combine the tuna, breadcrumbs, eggs, chopped cilantro, mayonnaise, lemon juice, salt, and pepper. Mix gently just until the ingredients hold together. Heat in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat and add the olive oil. Pack the tuna mixture into a 1/3 cup measure to make 8 patties. Cook the tuna cakes until crisp and golden on both sides. Serve with salsa and cilantro. 


Bella's favorite Stroganoff

2-3lbs beef roast
8oz chopped mushrooms
Small handful garlic cloves, minced
1 stick butter
1/4 cup chopped fresh parsley
1/2 cup red wine
1/4 cup balsamic vinegar
    Block cream cheese

Place beef, mushrooms, garlic, butter, parsley, wine, and balsamic vinegar in a large slow cooker.  Cook on low for 8 hours or high for 4.  Once the meat is tender, remove it from the crockpot and shred into small pieces.  Place it back into the pot.  About 30 min before you are ready to eat add cream cheese into the crockpot.  Occasionally stir until it is melted evenly throughout.  Serve over noodles, rice, cauliflower rice, potatoes, or its good by itself.  


Alfredo sauce
1 Stick Butter
Handful cloves garlic minced
1/2 Block cream cheese (preferably Greek cream cheese)
1 Qt heavy cream
6oz package parmesan cheese

Melt butter on medium setting in a deep skillet.  Add in minced garlic and cream cheese. Continuously stir so it doesnt scorch. Once cream cheese is melted add in cream.  Stir until smooth.  Turn heat down to low and add parmesan.  Serve over fettuccini or tortellini noodles.  



Heathers Cold Weather Chili

2 lbs Ground Beef (or deer, turkey, etc)
1 medium jalapeno or the equivalent
1 medium yellow union
4 heaping tbls Williams Taco Seasoning
3 cans beans ( I use black, pinto, and kidney)
2 cans tomato sauce
1 can petite diced tomatoes 

Dice jalapeno and onion.  In a large pot add ground beef jalapeno and onion.  Cook on medium until ground beef is cooked through.  Drain and rinse meat.  Add back into the pot.  Add all cans and taco seasoning.  Stir and simmer for at least 20 min.  You can keep on low or in a crockpot to keep warm until you are ready to eat.  


Chili Nachos

Tostitos Cantina Traditional tortilla chips
Left over chili
Fiesta Blend shredded cheese
Green onion
Sliced jalapeno
Tomato
Plain Greek yogurt
Cholula hot sauce
Line baking pan with foil.  Spread chips evenly across pan.  Layer chili through tomato as listed above.  Bake at 350* for five min.  Then broil until cheese is melted.  Serve with Greek yogurt and Cholula.  


lasagna
Spinach
Mushrooms
1lb ground beef or turkey
2 jars Bertoli Garlic and Basil Marinara Sauce
2-4 tablespoons pesto sauce
16oz cottage cheese
Oven ready lasagna noodles
2 16oz packages Italian Blend shredded cheese

Chop spinach and mushrooms into small pieces.  In a skillet cook spinach, mushrooms, and ground meat on medium heat until meat is browned.  In a large bowl combine 1.5 jars marinara sauce, pesto sauce, and cottage cheese.  Stir in browned ground beef.  If the mixture seems too thick add in the rest of the marinara sauce.  In a rectangular casserole dish spread a thin layer of the marinara/meat mixture.  Place noodles evenly, but not overlapping, over the mixture.  On top of the noodles add a thick layer of meat mixture.   Next add a layer of shredded cheese.  Continue layering until dish is full or cheese layer ends on top.  Bake at 375* for 45min-1hour.

*Healthy option.  Split a spaghetti squash in two halves long ways.  Removes seeds and lightly coat inside of squash with olive oil.  Cover a baking sheet with foil.  Pour a thin layer of water into baking sheet.  Place squash inside down into water.  Bake at 400* for 30ish min, or until you can easily pierce the top side of the squash with a knife or fork.  Remove from oven and let cool. Dump remaining water from the baking dish. With a fork shred the inside of the squash removing the meaty part from the skin.  In a colander squeeze excess water from the squash.  Place back into the squash skin.  Layer the lasagna meat/marinara mixture on top of the shredded squash.  Top with cheese. Place back in the oven for 15ish min or until cheese is bubbly on top. 



Mama Malindas spaghetti
1lb ground beef
1 onion chopped finely
2 cloves garlic crushed
2 jars garlic and herb or basil marinara sauce
2 zucchini grated
1 tsp basil
Brown meat and onions.  Drain and rinse.  Return to pot and add garlic, basil, marinara, and zucchini.  Simmer for 15-20 min.  Serve with spaghetti noodles.  



Loree's Tukery Ham Tetrazzini
Loree's Turkey Ham Tetrazzini

7oz cooked spaghetti  
4oz sliced mushrooms
6tbsp butter
1 medium onion chopped
3-4 stalks celery
6tbsp butter
1tsp salt
 2 cups water
2 chicken bouillon cubes
1 cup cream
2 cups cubed ham
2 cups cubed turkey
Parmesan cheese

Sautee onion, celery, and mushrooms in butter.  Stir in flour, pepper, salt, and 2 cups water. Stir until smooth. White stirring add bouillon cubes and cream. Fold in ham, turkey, and cooked spaghetti.  Pour into a baking dish.  Cover with parmesan cheese.  Bake at 350* for 30-45 min.



Auntie and Uncies 
POBLANO SAUCE

8-10 poblanos
2 cans nestle media creama table cream
2-3 cubes (tbsp) knorr seasoning, caldo con sabor de pollo 
(chicken flavor bouillon)

Place poblanos on an outdoor grill or in an oven on high broil. You can use a sheet pan or place directly on the oven racks. Keep turning poblanos until blackened on all sides. Take roasted poblanos out of oven and let cool a few minutes. Place peppers in a plastic sack and tie to seal in moisture. Let steam for 15 minutes to let skins loosen. Under slow running water, remove loose skins, stems and inside veins of peppers. Try to keep as many seeds as possible to add if more spice is desired. Place peppers in a blender and add cream and seasoning. Blend on high for 2-3 minutes. Taste and adjust cream, seasoning and add seeds until desired spice and flavor is reached. Blending for a long time will continue to emulsify the seeds and add more spice. Serve with roasted chicken over cooked noodles and sauted mushrooms. 



TETRAZZINI

8 oz regular size spaghetti                 1 can (10 3/4oz)cream of chicken soup
broken in thirds                                  1 can (12 oz) evaporated milk
3/4 C sliced mushrooms (4 oz can)         2 C  chopped cooked chicken
4 Tbl butter                                        1/2 C grated cheddar cheese
1 onion chopped finely                        1/4 C parmesan cheese
1/2 tsp celery salt                                 1/4 tsp cayenne pepper
                                                         
Cook spaghetti until tender.  Drain and rinse.
Drain mushrooms, saving liquid.  Melt butter in saucepan and saute onions.  Add seasonings
And mushroom liquid.  Stir in cream of chicken soup stirring till smooth. Gradually add evaporated 
milk, stirring constantly until smooth and thick.  Mix spaghetti, mushrooms and turkey.  Combine 
with sauce and pour into buttered casserole dish.  Top with parmesan then cheddar cheese.
Bake at 350 for 30 minutes or until lightly browned on top.



MEATLOAF

1 lb ground beef
1/4 cup tomato sauce
1 tbsp Worchester sauce
1 onion chopped finely
1/2 bell pepper chopped finely
1/3 cup oatmeal
1/2 tsp salt
1/4 tsp pepper
1/4 tsp garlic salt
1 egg
Combine all ingredients. Shape into loaf. Top with head country bbq sauce or ketchup. Bake at 350 for approximately 45 min or until meat is cooked through. 



Supreme Mushroom Cap Pizza
1/2 Orange pepper
1lb turkey sausage
1/2 Purple onion
Portabella Mushroom Cap
Olive Oil
Pepperoni
Marinara Sauce
Spinach
Italian Blend shredded cheese
Dice onion and pepper into small pieces.  Over medium heat cook onion, pepper, and sausage until sausage is browned.  Line a baking sheet with foil.  Remove stems from mushrooms, wash and pat dry.  Lightly brush top side of mushroom with olive oil.  Place mushroom top side down onto foil.  Spread desired amount of marinara sauce onto the under side of the mushroom.  Layer mushroom with spinach, sausage/pepper/onion blend, pepperoni, shredded cheese.  Bake at 350* until cheese starts to bubble and brown on top.  
 

SHEPHERDS PIE

4 medium sweet potatoes, scrubbed
3 tbsp raw coconut oil
1/2 tsp sea salt
1/2 tsp ground cinnamon
1/4 tsp ground nutmeg
1/8 tsp cayenne pepper

For the Filling: 
1 tbsp olive oil or grapeseed oil
2 large carrots, diced
2 celery stalks, diced
1 medium onion, diced
1 tsp sea salt
2 garlic cloves, minced
3/4 tsp ground chipotle pepper
1/2 tsp dried oregano
1/2 tsp ground cumin
1/4 tsp ground cinnamon
1 lb ground lamb, hamburger or turkey (I use lamb)
1 cup chicken broth

Preheat the oven to 425. Halve the sweet potatoes lengthwise and place them cut side down on a foil-lined baking sheet. Bake for 30 minutes or until tender. Set the sweet potato aside to cool. While the sweet potatoes bake and cool, make the filling: Heat a wide deep skillet or pot over medium-high heat. Place the oil, carrots, celery, onion, and a pinch of salt in a pot and cook, stirring often, until the veggies are soft and starting to brown, about 10 minutes. Add the garlic, chipotle pepper, oregano, cumin, and cinnamon, and saute for 1 minute. Add the ground turkey and cook, stirring, until the meat is browned. Stir in the chicken broth, bring to a fast simmer, and cook for about 10 minutes, until the sauce thickens. Season with 1 tsp salt. Meanwhile, when the sweet potatoes are cool enough to handle, scoop out the flesh with a spoon. In a food processor (or by hand), mash the sweet potato with coconut oil, salt, cinnamon, nutmeg, and cayenne pepper until smooth. Spread the turkey mixture evenly in an 8x10- inch baking dish. Spread the sweet potatoes evenly on top. Bake at 425 for 15 minutes, and then broil for 1 to 2 minutes to brown the sweet potatoes around the edges. 




Carne Asada

1/4 cup chopped fresh cilantro
4 tablespoons chopped fresh garlic
1/4 cup honey
Tbsp cumin
2 jalapenos seeded and chopped
Juice from 4 limes
Flank or skirt steak
Combine all ingredients and let set for 2-12 hours.  Grill to desired doneness.




Mexican Casserole
1 lb hamburger meat
Bag doritos
2 can ranch style beans
1 can taco sauce
1 can green chilies
1 can mushroom soup
1 cup milk
1/2 lb grated cheese 

Line a 9x13 pan with doritos. Brown 1 lb hamburger meat and spread over doritos. Add in layers. Cover with doritos and bake at 350 for 25 minutes.


BBQ Nachos

Tostitos Cantina Traditional tortilla chips
Smoked meat (pork, beef, chicken)
Fiesta Blend shredded cheese
Green onion
Sliced jalapeno
White Queso
Head Country BBQ
Plain Greek Yogurt

Line a baking pan with foil.  Spread chips evenly across pan.  Layer meat through BBQ as listed above.  Bake at 350* for five min.  Then broil until cheese is good and melty.  Serve with Greek yogurt.



HOT CHICKEN SALAD

4 or 5 large chicken breasts (boiled and chopped)
2 cans cream of chicken soup
1/4 cup chopped onion
6 boiled eggs, finely chopped
2 Tbsp lemon juice
1 cup mayonnaise
1/2 cup slivered almonds
3 cup crushed potato chips

Add all ingredients together and stir to mix. Put in a greased 4-quart casserole dish. Pour another 1 cup crushed potato chips on top. Bake at 400 for 30 minutes. Serve hot. 



MASHED POTATOES

5 pounds Yukon gold potatoes
1 stick butter
8 oz sour cream
8 oz cream cheese
Salt and pepper to taste.
 
Place butter and cream cheese and sour cream in bottom of mixing bowl while boiling potatoes. Boil potatoes until soft. Strain off water and add to mixing bowl. Whip potato mixture until fluffy. Salt and pepper to taste. 



BASIC SWEET DOUGH

2 pkg yeast
1/4 cup lukewarm water
1/2 cup sugar + 2 tsp sugar
2 tsp salt
1 cup scalded milk
5 cup sifted flour

Dissolve yeast in water adding 2 tsp sugar. Set aside to rise. Scald milk and pour over sugar salt and butter. Stir, then cool till lukewarm. Add enough flour to make a thick dough (approx. 2 cups). Stir until you have a dough. Add eggs and yeast and beat until smooth. Then add the remainder of flour and stir until all worked in. Turn out, kneed and then let rise 1/5 hours, covered with a towel until 2 fingers inserted holds the spring. Punch down, shape into desired form. If making braids, divide in half (makes two braids). Shape and place onto greased cookie sheet. Bake at 350 for 20 minutes. 



PLAIN DINNER ROLLS

2 pkg dry yeast
1/2 cup warm water
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup shortening
2 tsp salt
2 cup scalded milk
2 eggs, slightly beaten
6 cup flour
1/2 cup melted butter
Soften yeast in warm water. Combine with dough hooks and mixer, sugar, shortening and salt in mixing bowl. Stir in hot milk. Cool mixture. Add eggs and yeast, 4 cups flour. Add remaining flour gradually to make soft dough. Put dough in large mixing bowl. Cover with plastic wrap that has been sprayed with cooking spray. Let double in size (approx. 1/2 hours) in warming drawer or warm area. Punch down. Refrigerate (approx. 2 hours). Divide dough in half. Roll out on floured surface in a circle. Brush with melted butter. Cut circle in half and then half again with pizza cutter. Divide until you have small triangles (24 for each circle/48 triangles total making 4 dozen rolls). Roll from the bottom of each triangle to form a crescent roll shape. Put on dark pan that has been buttered. Let double in size again (25-30 min). Bake at 400 for 10 minutes or until golden. 


Mexican Cauliflower Rice
Avocado or Olive Oil
Cauliflower Rice
A few cloves Garlic
Tsp Cumin
Chicken Broth
Can Corn
Can black beans
Cilantro Lime Rotel

Drizzle oil into a large skillet or wok.  Turn heat on medium.  Add garlic, cumin and cauliflower rice.  Pan seer stirring continuously. Add a little chicken broth.  Let rice cook down.  Drain and rinse beans and corn.  Add corn, beans, and rotel to rice.  Cook until all is hot.  If you have questions call Heather.  


Cauliflower Fried Rice
Sesame Oil
Cauliflower rice
A few cloves crushed garlic
Green onion
Broccoli slaw
(whatever other veggies you like)
Soy sauce
Chicken broth
2 eggs

Drizzle sesame seed oil into a large skillet or wok and turn heat on medium.  Add cauliflower rice, garlic, green onion, and broccoli slaw. Pan seer stirring frequently.  Drizzle with soy sauce.  Let veggies absorb the soy sauce.  When it starts to dry out a bit add some chicken broth.  Cook down until it is a moist rice texture.  Make a hole in the middle of the veggies.  Crack both eggs into the hole and scramble.  Once cooked, mix in with vegetables.    


Green Bean Casserole
Green Bean Casserole

2 cans green beans
1/2 stick butter
1tbsp crushed garlic
8oz mushrooms
Tablespoon fresh parsley
1/4 cup wine
1tbsp balsamic
1/3 block cream cheese
French fried onions
16-20 club crackers
Another 1/2 stick butter

In a skillet melt 1/2 stick butter.  Add crushed garlic, mushrooms, parsley, wine, and balsamic.  Cooked down the mushrooms.  Melt in the cream cheese.  Drain out almost all of the water from the cans of green beans.  Combine green beans and mushroom mixture in a casserole dish.  In a separate bowl melt the other 1/2 stick of butter.  Crush the cracker and French fried onions in a gallon size bag. Pour melted butter over the crackers and fried onions, and disperse evenly.  Layer crackers and fried onions over the green beans.  Bake at 350* for 25 min or until the top is golden brown.  


CHEESEY GREEN BEAN CASSEROLE

3 cans green beans (drained)
1/2 tsp garlic powder
1/2 cup bacon bits
8 oz sour cream 
1 can cream of chicken soup
1 can cream of mushroom soup
8 oz cheddar cheese
8 oz Monterey jack cheese, shredded
Ritz crackers, crushed

Mix green beans, garlic powder and bacon bits. In a separate bowl, mix together the sour cream, cream of chicken soup, and cream of mushroom soup. Stir into green bean mixture. Place in casserole dish. Sprinkle cheeses on casserole and top with ritz crackers. Bake at 350 for 30 minutes or until top is light golden brown. 


Granny Margaret's Peas and Asparagus
Canned Peas
Canned asparagus
Cream of mushroom soup
White American cheese
White bread
3 tbsp butter 

Drain cans of peas and asparagus. Mix in with mushroom soup.  Put mixture in a casserole dish.  Top with a layer of American cheese.  Cut crust off of bread and into  1/2 inch cubes.  Place in a gallon zip lock bag.  Melt butter.  Pour over bread and disperse evenly.  Spread buttered bread on top of the cheese.  Bake at 350* for 20 min or cheese is melty and bread is golden brown.  



Spice Indian CHicpeas
2.5 Tbsp grapeseed or olive oil
1 medium yellow onion, finely chopped
8 garlic cloves, minced
1 3-in piece fresh ginger, peeled and minced (about 1/3 cup)
1.5 tsp ground cinnamon
1.5 tsp garam masala
2 tsp ground cumin
1 tsp ground coriander
1/2 tsp ground cloves
1/8 to 1/4 tsp cayenne pepper 
1 tsp sea salt
2 Tbsp tomato paste
2 15-oz cans chickpeas, drained (2/3 cup liquid reserved)
Chopped tomatoes, red onion, cilantro, and lemon wedges, for serving
Heat a large skillet over medium heat and swirl in the oil. Add the chopped onion, garlic, and ginger. Saute until the onion is soft and lightly golden, 5-6 minutes. In a small bowl, combine the cinnamon, garam masala, cumin, coriander, cloves, cayenne, and salt. Add to the onion mixture and cook and stir the spices to lightly toast, about one minute. Stir in the tomato paste and cook for another minute to combine. The color should be dark red. Add the chickpeas and reserve liquid. Stir to combine. Reduce heat to medium-low, cover, and cook for 5 minutes. Uncover and cook for another 2 minutes. Remove the pan from the heat and let it sit for minute to allow the beans to soak up the spice flavors. Serve with chopped tomatoes, red onion, cilantro, and lemon wedges. 


CRISCO PIE CRUST

3 cups flour
1 1/2 cups butter flavored crisco
1/2 tsp salt
1/3 cup cold water
1 egg
1/2 tbsp vinegar

Use a pastry cutter and cut together flour salt and crisco. Cut until everything is in tiny flakes. Push all of this to the outside of the bowl making a center well. Pour in water beaten egg and vinegar. Fold mixture into the center with a spatula until all the flour mixture has absorbed all the moisture. Roll into a ball and let sit a few minutes. Divide into two balls, making two bottom crusts or top/bottom or use it all for a cobbler.

*Find the Butter Pie Crust recipe in the breakfast section.


Coconut Cream Pie

Pie Shell
4 eggs  eparated
2 cups half & Half 
1 cup milk
1 cup sugar
1/3 cup flour
1/2 tsp salt
2 tbsp butter
1 tbsp vanilla
1/2 bag coconut
7oz marshmallow cream
Bake pie shell at 400* aprox 15 min.  Remove from oven and let cool. Reduce oven heat to 325*  In a microwave bowl combine egg yokes, half & half , and milk.  In a separate bowl combine sugar, flour, and salt.  Whisk dry mixture into egg/milk mixture.  Microwave mixture in 2 min intervals for 8-9 min, whisking between each interval.  When mixture was thick add butter, vanilla, and coconut.  Pour mixture into the pie shell.
Meringue 
Beat egg whites until stiff.  Beat marshmallow cream into egg whites.  Pile on pie filling.  Make sure meringue touch crust all the way around.  Add loose coconut to the top.  Bake at 325* for approx. 15 min or until meringue starts to turn golden brown on top.  Chill & enjoy.



BUTTERMILK PIE

3 large eggs
1 cup sugar
2 tbsp all-purpose flour
1 stick melted butter, slightly cooled
2 tsp pure vanilla extract
1 unbaked 9-inch pie shell

Beat eggs slightly. Mix sugar and flour well and add to the eggs. Mix until creamy. Add melted butter, mixing well. Add buttermilk and vanilla extract. Pour into unbaked pie shell. Bake at 325 for 45 minutes to 1 hour or longer, until custard sets up. (The custard will still jiggle a little bit in the oven when its set. Just make sure that the middle doesnt jiggle a lot more than the sides. That means it needs more time) 

Blackberry Sauce: (optional)
1/2 cup seedless blackberry preserves
1 tbsp Chambord liqueur, orange liqueur or triple sec
Pour the preserves in a saucepan and cook on medium heat, stirring constantly with wire ship until smooth. Remove from heat and add liqueur. Let cool slightly and drizzle over pie. 


Ice Cream Base
2+ cups whipping cream
2 quarts half & half
2  1/2 cups sugar
6 eggs

Mix eggs, sugar, and however much half & half you can fit in a blender.  Pour mix into your ice cream canister.  Add the remaining half & half and whipping cream.  If all of that does not fill the canister add whipping cream to fill completely.  Follow directions on White Mountain Ice Cream Maker to finish ice cream.

For vanilla add 2 tbsp. vanilla bean paste.



Rocky Road Ice Cream

1 Package Oreos
4 cups Mini Marshmallows
2 cups Cocoa powdered almonds
Add the oreos to the blender with the ice cream base. Blend smooth.  Proceed with ice cream as recipe advises.  Put marshmallows into fridge to harden.  Finely chop almonds.  Take marshmallows out of fridge.  Cut marshmallows in half with scissors.  Fold almonds and marshmallows into the frozen chocolate ice cream. 


Fruit Ice Cream

Ice cream base
4 cups fruit
Sugar
Dice fruit into small pieces.  Sprinkle a little sugar over the fruit and let sit for at least 30 min.  Make up ice cream base.  Pour fruit into the canister.  Add ice cream base, remainder half & half, and as much whipping cream that will fit.   


Toasted Coconut Cream

1 can cream de coconut
2  1/2 cups toasted coconut

Blend cream de coconut with the ice cream base.  When ice cream is frozen fold in toasted coconut.  



Buttered Pecan Ice Cream

2 Cups finely chopped nuts
1 stick butter
1/2 tsp salt
1 tsp cinnamon

Add to skillet and sauté mixture until lightly browned.  Let cool and add to Ice Cream base.



PINEAPPLE CAKE
3 eggs, beaten
2 cup flour
2 cup sugar
2 tsp soda
1-2 can crushed pineapple
1 tsp vanilla
1/2 cup pecans

Mix and pour in a 9x13 pan. Bake at 350 for 45 min. Take out cake and put icing on while hot. 

Frosting: 
8 oz of cream cheese
1/2 stick butter
1 tsp vanilla
1  3/4 cup powdered sugar
1/2 cup pecans

Mix together all ingredients and beat with hand mixer until smooth. 


PINEAPPLE UPSIDEDOWN CAKE

1 Yellow Cake Mix
(And ingredients to follow mix recipe)
1/4  Cup Butter
1 Cup Brown Sugar
Can Pineapple Rings
Jar Maraschino Cherries

Mix up yellow cake mix per mix instructions.  Over medium heat in a deep skillet melt butter and brown sugar until caramelized.   Remove from heat.  Place pineapple rings and cherries into hot brown sugar.  Pour cake mix over pineapple and cherries.  Bake according to mix instructions.  Once cake is done throughout take from oven.  Turn over onto cake plate.  Once cooled a little bit remove skillet from cake.  Serve with whipped cream. 




Strawberry Cake

White cake mix
3tbsp flour
1 box strawberry jello
3/4 cup oil
4 eggs
1/2 cup water
1/2 cup frozen strawberries

Add flour, jello, water oil, and eggs to cake mix in a mixing bowl.  Beat for 2 min until smooth.  Add strawberries and beat for another min.  Bake at 350* for 34-40 min.  Let cake cool before covering with strawberry frosting.  


Strawberry Frosting

1 stick butter
1/2 cup frozen strawberries
1 box powdered sugar
1/4 tsp salt

Melt butter.  In a mixing bowl mix butter, strawberries, powdered sugar, and salt until smooth.




ITALIAN CREAM CAKE

1 cup butter softened
2 cups sugar
5 large eggs, separated
1 tbsp vanilla extract
2 cups all-purpose flour
1 tsp baking soda
1 cup buttermilk
2 cup flaked coconut
Nutty cream cheese frosting
Garnishes: toasted pecan halves, chopped pecans
Beat butter at medium speed with a mixer until fluffy. Gradually add sugar and beat well. Add egg yolks, one at a time, beating until blended after each addition add vanilla: Beat until blended. Combine flour and soda; add to butter mixture alternately with buttermilk, beginning and ending with flour mixture. Beat and low speed until blended after each addition. Stir in coconut. Beat egg whites until stiff peaks form; fold into batter. Pour batter into three greased and floured 9-inch round cake pans. Bake at 350 for 25 minutes or until a wooden pick inserted in center comes out clean. Cool in pans on wire racks for 10 minutes; remove from pans, and cool on wire racks. Spread nutty cream cheese frosting between layers and on top and sides of cake. Garnish, if desired. 

Nutty Cream Cheese Frosting: 
1 cup chopped pecans
1 (8-ounce) package cream cheese, softened
1/2 cup butter, softened
1 tbsp vanilla extract
1 (16-ounce) package powdered sugar, sifted

Place pecans in a shallow pan. Bake at 350 for 5 or 10 minutes or until toasted, stirring occasionally. Cool. Beat cream cheese, butter and vanilla at medium speed with an electric mixer until creamy. Add sugar, beating at low speed until blended. Beat at high speed until smooth; stir in pecans. 



PRIZE-WINNING POUND CAKE

1.5 cup butter, at room temp
1-8 oz pkg cream cheese, at room temp
3 cups sugar
3 cups flour
6 eggs
1 tsp vanilla
Pinch of salt

Cream butter and cream cheese together. Gradually add sugar. Beat in 2 of the eggs and  1/2 cup of flour and pinch of salt. Add remaining eggs and flour alternately. Add vanilla. Bake in greased and floured pans. (2 loaf pans 9x5x3 or a Bundt pan). Place cake in a cold oven. Heat to 300 and cook about 1.5 hours or more (until toothpick comes out clean with stuck in the middle of cake).



KAHLUA CAKE

1 Yellow cake mix
1 small pkg instant chocolate pudding
1/2 C Kahlua
1 C butter
1/2 C sugar
4 eggs
3/4 C water

Preheat oven to 350
Beat all ingredients together for 4 min.  Pour into greased and floured bunt pan.
Bake 45-50 min.  Cool slightly and put on plate. Glaze with icing.




CARROT SHEET CAKE

2 cups sugar
2 cups flour
2 tsp baking soda
1 tsp salt
2 tsp cinnamon
1 tsp nutmeg
1 1/4 cup butter
4 eggs, slightly beaten 
1 tsp vanilla
3 finely grated carrots

Cream Cheese Icing:
1 stick butter, softened
8 oz cream cheese, softened
4-5 cups powdered sugar
1 tsp vanilla
1/2 cup chopped pecans

Mix all dry ingredients. Add oil, eggs and vanilla. Mix together and add the carrots. Beat until well blended. Pour into a well-greased and floured jelly roll pan. Bake at 350 about 35 minutes or until springs back when you touch it. While cake is still warm, spread with cream cheese icing. 


CHOCOLATE SHEET CAKE

(Cake)1/2 cup buttermilk
2 cups sugar2 eggs beaten
2 cups flour1 tsp vanilla
1.5 sticks butter1 tsp cinnamon
1 cup water1/4 tsp salt
4 Tbsp cocoa1 tsp baking soda

(Icing)
1 stick butter
4 tbsp cocoa
1 lb powdered sugar
1 tsp vanilla
1 cup pecans, chopped
1 cup coconut
1/2 cup kahlua

For cake: Sift together sugar and flour. 
Mix butter, water and cocoa and bring to a boil. Add to sugar and flour mixture.
Add remaining ingredients to mixture. Bake at 400 for 20-25 min. 

For Icing: Melt cocoa and butter in sauce pan. Add powdered sugar. Stir in kahlua and vanilla. Add coconut and pecans. If mixture is too thick, add hot water. Spread on cake while both are hot. 




BLUEBERRY DESSERT

1 1/2 cup flour
1 1/2 sticks softened butter
3/4 cup chopped pecans
8 oz cream cheese
1 cup cool whip
1 cup powdered sugar
1 can blueberry pie filling

Mix together the butter, flour and press in a 9x13 pan. Press pecans into crust mixture. Bake at 350 for 30 minutes. Cool crust. In a separate bowl, combine cream cheese, cool whip and powdered sugar. Mix and spread on cool crust. Spread 1 can blueberry pie filling on next layer and top with remaining cool whip. 




CRÈME BRULEE

2 cups whipping cream
5 egg yolks
1/2 cup sugar
1 tbsp vanilla extract
1/2 cup brown sugar

Combine first 4 ingredients stirring with a wire whisk until sugar dissolves and mixture is smooth. Pour evenly in 5-1 in dishes. Place dishes in large pan, add hot water 1 in deep. Bake at 275 for 45-50 min or almost set. Cool custard in water in pan. Remove from water and serve warm or chill. Sprinkle 1.5 tbsp brown sugar evenly over each custard. Place custards on cookie sheet. Put oven rack on top rack. Broil with door partially open until sugar melts. Let stand 5 minutes to allow sugar to harden.




KILLER COOKIES

1 cup butter
1 cup sugar
1 cup brown sugar
2 eggs
2 tsp vanilla
2 cups flour
1 tsp baking powder
1 tsp baking soda
1/2 tsp salt
2.5 cups old fashion oats
1 cup sweetened coconut flakes
1 regular size pkg milk chocolate chips 
1.5 cups chopped pecans

Melt butter. Add sugars, eggs and vanilla and mix well. Sift together flour, baking soda, baking powder and salt. Add to butter/sugar mixture. Add in order oats, coconut, chocolate chips, pecans, stirring well in between. Shape into golf ball size balls and lay on ungreased cookie sheet. (20 cookies per pan) Press down lightly with fingers. Bake at 350 for 8-12 min. Cookies will set up slightly after cooling so dont over bake. 



SNICKERDOODLES

2 stick butter
1 1/2 c sugar
2  3/4c flour
2 tsp cream of tartar
1 tsp soda
1/4 tsp salt

2TBL sugar
2 tsp cinnamon

Mix butter sugar and eggs thoroughly
Mix flour and cream of tartar soda, soda and salt, stir into mixture
Make balls size of walnuts with dough, roll ball in mixture of cinnamon and sugar.
Place about 2 inches apart on ungreased cookie sheet
Bake 400 8-10 min



Shortbread Cookies

1 cup butter
1/2 cup sugar
2 cups flour

Beat sugar and butter until fluffy.  Stir in flour. On a baking sheet roll out dough to 1/4" thick.  Bake at 350* for 15 min or until dough is light tan.  Cut cookies into desired shape.  Set out to cool.  



CHICAGO STREET SUGAR COOKIES 

1 cup butter
1 cup powdered sugar
2 eggs
4 cup flour + 2 tbsp
1 tsp cream of tarter
1 cup granulated sugar
1 cup cooking oil
1 tsp vanilla
1 tsp salt
1 tsp soda

Cream butter, sugar and oil. Add eggs one at a time and add vanilla. Sift flour, salt, cream of tarter and soda. Add to cream mixture a little at a time. Turn mixer on high and beat until light and fluffy. Spoon mixture on ungreased cookie sheet. Press with glass dipped in sugar. Bake at 375 for 6-8 minutes. 




PUMPKIN DIP

4 cup powdered sugar
2- 8 oz packages of cream cheese (16 oz total)
1-30 oz can of pumpkin
2 tsp ground cinnamon
1 tsp ground ginger

Mix powdered sugar and cream cheese. Add pumpkin and spices. Chill before serving. Serve with ginger snap cookies. 




TOFFEE

1/2 lb butter
1 1/3 cup sugar
1 Tbsp white karo syrup
3/4 cup chopped and browned almonds. 
1/4 cup finely chopped almonds
5 hershey bars

Melt butter. Add sugar, water and syrup. Let cook until 295 or 300. Add chopped almonds fast. Pour in 9x13 pan. Put hersheys on top and melt, then spread. Add fine chopped almonds. 



MOOSE MUNCH
CARAMEL POPCORN

1 C butter
2 C brown sugar
1/2 C light corn syrup
1/2 tsp soda
1 C nuts
1 tsp salt
6 quarts popped corn
(You can buy pre-popped corn)

Keep popcorn and nuts warm in 250 oven in a large pan. Combine butter, sugar, corn syrup and salt in a sauce pan.  Cook over medium high heat to 250 or for 5 min in a rolling boil stirring constantly.  Remove from heat and stir together vanilla and add to hot mixture
Pour over hot popcorn and stir to evenly coat.
Bake in 250 oven for 45 min, stirring every 15 min
Pour out onto waxed paper.  Heat 1/2 pkg almond bark broken into pieces in a microwave bowl for 1 min then 30 seconds at a time till melted.  Drizzle across popcorn.  Let cool.  Break apart and store in airtight container.



PECAN BRITTLE

1.5 cup chopped pecans
1 cup sugar
1/2 cup white corn syrup
1/8 tsp salt
1 tsp butter
1 tsp vanilla
1 tsp baking soda

Combine pecans, sugar, syrup and salt in 2-quart bowl. Microwave on high for 7-8 minutes. Stir once at 4 minutes. After 7 minutes, add butter and vanilla but dont stir. Microwave on high for 2 minutes. Take out, add soda and stir. Spread on greased cookie sheet. Let cool and then break into smaller pieces to serve or store. 




